This has translated to me like
overseeing our sales organization as a
learning of how we do things internally
and how we want to leverage AI to make
decisions that were historically
otherwise determined by territories and
named accounts and like how pipelines
created. And so we had this really I
think unique way in which we think about
customer acquisition which is if a lead
comes in that looks like a particular
type of lead it gets distributed to the
account executive that has the highest
propensity to close that type of
business and so it's not roundroin it's
not named accounts it's based on merit.
[Music]
Hey everybody, the best dots are taken
or overpriced. I was literally looking
for a domain name the other day. It was
$10,000 just to make an offer, so you
settle on a workaround domain for your
website. Don't compromise. Get a
cleansharp.te domain that instantly says
is a tech startup. Grab yours at
get.te/saster.
That's get.te/saster
or on domain registers like GoDaddy.
Stop compromising. Get the domain you
need. Hey everybody, Sasser annual will
be back May 2026, the world's largest
SAS and AI gathering for executives.
Just this last May, we hosted 10,000
attendees with 68 VP level and above
attendees, 36% CEOs and founders and 25%
were AI first professionals. It's the
very best of STER attendees and decision
makers that come to SAS annual and AI
summit each and every year. But here's
the reality, folks. The longer you wait,
the higher ticket prices get. They're
cheap now. They're cheap. So just get
them early lock in your spot today. Use
my code Jason100 for exclusive savings.
Get your tickets at
podcast.sasterangual.com
or just use code Jason 100 when you
check out. See you there. Saster Annual
and AISummit 2026. It will rock.
>> Please welcome Service Titan Ross
Beastman
and managing partner and co-founder of
chemistry Christina Shen.
[Music]
All right.
>> All right.
Well, welcome to Sasser. Uh, show hands.
Whose first Saster is this? Wow.
Is it your first Saster? No, this is
your second SAS.
>> Second Saster. I was here exactly seven
years ago, right around the time I
joined Service Titan.
>> I think I am on Saster number five. So,
thank you for having us back. It's
always an incredible event. I am
Christina Shen, one of the co-founders
of chemistry. We are a new $350 million
early stage fund investing in seed and
series A and I am more than beyond
thrilled to get the chance to interview
uh Ross Beastman who we've known each
other for now how long? I'm going to say
almost two decades because we were at
one point uh undergrads together and you
were in the business school with all the
people that were going to be venture
capitalists and I was in the political
science department for those that become
salesman.
>> Uh well it worked out great. Start in
the same place two different paths. We
were just reflecting backstage. Um it
has been a long time. I feel like we're
in a boardroom right now. Well, let's
get started. when you first joined
Service Titan um as the head of sales
talk a little bit about what attracted
you to Service Titan.
>> So originally I didn't want to love it
and when you were at Bessemerf along
with the other fantastic team there I
was tapped to say there is this
incredible opportunity in vertical SAS
and they need someone to come and run
their go to market organization. I said
what's the name of the company? They
said service. I said where is it? They
said Los Angeles. And I was living up
here at the time and I said what do they
do? and they say, "Well, we build
software for plumbers." And I said,
"Wow, I don't know anything about
plumbing. The customers that I work with
in enterprise software are companies
like Bloomberg and United Airlines and
Sprint." And at the surface, I wasn't
sure that this was the right fit for me.
And it was ultimately the time that I
spent with the founders of the company,
Ara and Vah, who are still the CEO and
president respectively to this time that
I really was able to see the gravity of
the mission that they had. Their parents
worked really hard as trades people,
plumbers and HVAC contractors in
Southern California, and they invested
every dollar they had not just into
their business, but also into their
families. But instead of going into
their parents' garage to create Apple,
they went into their dad's plumbing shop
in Los Angeles and said this is an
industry, the trades industry. And they
said that these businesses have been
ignored and they have been trapped in
the past doing everything manually. When
all these other industries had been
disrupted for the better, they decided
that there's a better way. And when I
saw the deep commitment to not only
their dads but also the opportunity to
positively impact the lives of really
hardworking people, that was what really
put me over.
>> And it's so special here. I mean, even
back in 2018, vertical software was not
really a known category today. I'm
curious, how did you
evaluate the opportunity? Like, how did
you compare it?
>> I was told I was crazy. Um, and it it's
the second time in my career where I was
told I was crazy,
>> you know, evaluating this opportunity.
The time that I actually spent in the
due diligence process, not just on the
company and the founders and the mission
and the actual technology, it was
actually spending time meeting with
their customers. And when I walked into
these customers place of business, which
we call shops, HVAC shops in places like
Fresno, California, where it's 110
degrees outside, and you walk into a
building that doesn't look like the
Bloomberg Tower in Manhattan, but you
walk in and you see every single person
in this business that is deeply embedded
and committed to using this technology
as their operating system, whether the
person that's answering calls at the
front desk, you're the CFO, you're the
owner,
you're the person in the warehouse
checking inventory or you're the
technician in the field. I recognized
the criticality of the software to an
entire industry. And then when I sized
the industry and saw that it did over a
trillion dollars just domestically in
gross transaction volume, I said there's
a huge opportunity. And I called my
wife. I said, I'm going to Los Angeles
to sell software to plumbers.
I remember way back in the day when we
were at Bessemer, it's myself, Byron
Deer, and Tyler Goldberg. Uh, we wrote
now this very famous memo about service.
I think we put what do we say a 2%
chance at a billion dollar outcome. Uh,
and what we just checked the market cap
today. What do you have today?
>> Uh, according to 30 minutes ago, I think
it's about 11 billion.
>> I mean, first of all, congratulations.
You know, big IPO in the last year. What
an incredible outcome. I just remember
the early days when we were talking
about Service. It was always that
missiondriven approach. I mean vertical
software was a new category. No
significant venture dollars in the first
few years and yet they had that grit and
mission driven. I remember we talked to
customers and the first thing every
customer said was don't tell my
competition. This is my secret weapon.
And I knew it's by far the best customer
calls I've ever done in my 15 years of
venture.
>> It's awesome. And I think that what's
you know interesting and as I think
about the different paths that I've had
in my career and when I now have the
opportunity something I really enjoy is
talking to founders of earlier stage
companies when they think about like the
business model or even if you're a
venture person and you're thinking about
the investment thesis is just the order
of operations as it relates to what it
takes to create a successful business.
And one of the principles that we
operate on as a business is that every
decision we make, every dollar that we
fund raise, every product that we build,
every person that we hire is solely
focused on how can we create a better
life for contractors and how do we
create better business outcomes for
their businesses and then and only then
if we do that we in return will have an
incredible business ourselves. And it's
almost like how do I think about this
from the value that we're bringing to
the customer and their ability to drive
successful outcomes in their business as
ultimately the prerequisite to anything
that we become the beneficiary of.
>> All right, let's jump into let's jump
into your time at Service. So 2018,
first year in, what does Service look
like? How big were you? What the or look
like? Any buyers remorse when you first
joined? Any pleasant surprises? Okay.
So, I'm employee number 354, 354. We
were series B company doing less than
$30 million in ARR. And I would say that
it was organized chaos in the best
possible way. We were very focused on
customer acquisition, a new logo
acquisition and we were a one product
company that was only one version that
was brought to market to just one
particular set of trades businesses in
plumbing, heating and electrical. And
that's literally all that we were at
that time. And we were predominantly an
inbound focus engine. And we needed to
identify the path to get to 50, to get
to 100, to get to 500. And there were a
lot of different experiments that we
took along the way.
>> You've been in sales for a long time,
almost a decade before you joined
Service Titan. How much of sales and say
the tech and enterprise world translated
over to the trades world?
>> It's a great question. So when I was uh
running go to market for companies here
in Silicon Valley, I would often get
into my car um whether I was going to
see a customer or meeting a sales rep
and I would drive from San Francisco to
San Jose down 101 just like many of us
all do all the time and I would look on
the side of the freeway and I'd see
whether it's billboards or logos of
buildings in this incredible part of the
world and say I can sell software to any
one these companies and being in
vertically focused software actually
taught me I think a really valuable
lesson that I fervently believe now
having been in this experience
translates and would translate to any
company even agnostic of vertical which
is the focus on ideal customer profile I
know that a lot of people use that term
and I'll tell you about the way in which
we define ICP as it relates to how we go
to market everything that we do is
intentional. And when we think about the
marketing dollars that we're pouring in,
the R&D dollars that we're pouring in to
create products and workflows, we
effectively put blinders on and say, "We
know who we are. We know who we're for."
And I think that that exercise and
discipline as it relates to knowing what
your target customer is pays real
long-term dividends. And I know that
it's really hard as I spend time with
companies that are at earlier stages
trying to chase dollars. They're trying
to chase dollars. Maybe it's because
they want to hit a specific target and
they're going to be deemed more valuable
in the venture community. Or maybe it's
literally at the point that we need to
get these dollars in to make payroll.
And I find that that approach just
allows for too much thrash in an
organization. whether the product's not
going to work perfectly for this end
customer. Potentially it means that this
customer that we sign up is not going to
have successful outcomes and is going to
be quote unquote born red and heightened
propensity for churn. And that
ultimately the discipline and the
ability to say as much as I'd like to
take your money and take your sales
order is not conducive to long-term
really strong unit economics and I am
much more focused on saying we're going
to be really disciplined and really
focused on serving a particular type of
client that has these attributes because
if we do that and we know that the
opportunity is really large you can
create incredible repeatability in your
business and your go to market motion.
What about what didn't translate? Were
there any initiatives on the go to
market side that you tried that worked
well in maybe the tech and enterprise
world that didn't translate over to the
trades?
>> Yeah, there were so many things that I
had learned throughout my career as it
relates to just basic things like
thinking about how to build a capacity
model of I need this many AES, they're
going to perform at this level of
productivity and then that's going to
get us to this number. those
preconceived notions and things that are
commonplace and like the industry best
practice I find aren't perfect
translation and those things need to be
challenged and so it was really clear to
me that one of the secret sauces of
achieving scale was parking a lot of
those best practices or those
conversations that many of you may have
in your organization says well I did
this at my last company I would really
challenge those things every single day
to determine if it's actually right for
your
How big is the or now?
>> Uh we're over 3,000 people uh today and
based on the last earnings call uh we
did just north of 770 million in
revenue.
>> Wow. Incredible. 30 million to 700 plus
million in revenue in the last seven
years. That's pretty incredible.
>> Been very fortunate.
>> I'm curious uh what's been hard since
you've joined Service Titan? You know,
you talked about your first year. What
about preipo before the fantastic IPO at
Q4 last year?
>> Yeah. So, I think that what has been
challenging is
every curveball that's been thrown our
way, whether it be the pandemic and
people look, if you think about our
customers, right, they by definition are
responsible for going into strangers
homes and fixing their plumbing or
fixing their air conditioning or fixing
their electrical sockets. And the the
pandemic changed the world. And
interestingly, like that turned into a
major tailwind for us because people
were spending times in their homes. But
we were really intentional about
figuring out ways in which we could help
the industry survive and be durable
during this time of uncertainty. I think
other things that have were changes to
the global economy and the macro. It's
just been curveball after curveball
after curveball. And you it really tests
your metal it. And I think that one of
the areas that I remember very vividly
was we were actually in the process of
trying to take the company public in Q1
or Q2 of 2022. And we were a business at
that time that was not unlike a lot of
other SAS businesses which was focused
on hyperrowth. And I'm not going to say
growth at all all costs because you you
limited me to specific CAC payback
constraints, but the idea of having to
be profitable was, you know, we can
worry about that later. And when I got
the call saying that we're going to pull
back from taking the company public,
that was a gut punch to not only me, but
also to so many other titans and people
that had believed that this huge
milestone was a goal that we were
shooting for. And I was reminded a
conversation that I had with my rugby
coach. You and I are both Cal Bears. And
I was rugby player at Cal. They just
celebrated their 34th national
championship and the coach today is
still the same coach that I had when I
was there. And I was telling him about
this experience and it was deeply
affecting me psychologically. And he
said, "Let me tell you about when I
recently did some work with the Army
Rangers." and told me this story about
how as you go through to Ranger school
and you ultimately want to become this
elite warrior within the Rangers, one of
the things that you have to do is go
through this very arduous physical
conditioning test. And it's a test that
is known and you know that you have to
complete it under this time period, but
you don't know when it's going to
happen. And so sure enough, it's three
o'clock in the morning and the sirens go
off. It's dark. There's fireworks going
off. There's loud music. And you got to
jump into your boots and you got to go
and perform this really physical,
arduous test. And you're disoriented.
and one of these amazing things happen
to where you've trained this test for
months and you see the finish line
that's out in front of you and a bunch
of your commanding officers are there
encouraging you to finish and you see
the clock and you see the time but it
actually wasn't the destination. They
had messed with these people's minds and
said that this is the end of the test
but it was actually another couple of
miles. And what happened was is people
didn't actually fail physically, they
failed psychologically. They couldn't
bring themselves to the fact that this
is not the destination and they just
broke down. And it took this level of
kind of recognition through this story
to help me realize that the IPO is truly
just a milestone. it is not a
destination and completely helped us
reorient the way in which we think about
the long-term durability of a business.
>> I mean what an incredible journey and
like you know I'm sure as many in the
room look to service as probably one of
the most marquee vertical software
companies and also probably one of the
early companies that actually figured
out how to go multi-vertical
>> and so maybe talk about that a little
bit.
uh in the most fun way had always
referred to like well we never knew sen
be more than plumbing software obviously
you've now covered all the trades help
us understand that journey a little bit
of how you stayed focused on your
initial market as well as moving into
Jason verticals
>> yeah so you know we we've had for many
years now we've had this mission of
becoming the operating system of the
trades but um it really started with how
can we make our customers in one
specific vertical so successful that we
can use that as the currency to
potentially enter new verticals as well.
And there were three really important
things that I look back on that we did
that were really impactful in our
ability to do this. Number one is that
we hired as many industry professionals
as possible um into our organization. We
hired people from these specific trades
that had been technicians, that had been
call center agents, that had been FOs,
that had been owners, um, and said, "We
want you to come work for us. We want
you to come report into our R&D
function, and we want to learn from you
how we're going to build product that's
going to be conducive to these other
verticals that we're not in today." The
second thing that we did is that we
spent countless hours in the field
actually with our potential market that
we wanted to build product for. And
whether it be ride alongs with
technicians and seeing how they did
their work either at commercial
properties or at residences or in the
office to identify every point of value
that we could infuse into the product
that would ultimately be conducive to a
completely tailored solution. And the
the last thing that we did is that we
didn't open the floodgates right away.
We were really methodical about testing
and establishing success criteria in a
very tightly confined incubated test to
say, "Okay, we're going to take the big
bet that this is something that's worth
testing. We're actually going to pull
our top performing people in an already
established market and we're going to
put them into this really hard, really
new place." And that was scary for me as
the person that's responsible for the
P&L and the the top line because I don't
want to take my 10 best salespeople that
are helping us keep the lights on and
helping us grow and have them focus on
something that is possibly going to be a
failure. But it was really that
discipline around establishing the
success criteria, knowing that we've
done the work and then establishing the
best practice there that earned us the
right to go into multiple trades.
I mean, it's been one of the biggest
success stories across multiple
industries. We're going to get into some
fun customer stories, too. But we were
talking in the backstage about what's
the most shameless thing an investor has
done to try to invest in service titan.
>> So, I I think that during the the early
stages of venture, one of um the uh
venture capitalists that was I think
chasing our series A and congratulations
to you and your team at Bessmer at the
time uh for earning that. I wanted to
get very creative and this individual
called our founders's executive
assistant said hey are R and Vah going
to this trade show in Las Vegas um
around plumbing and she said yes they're
going to be there and acknowledging that
the closest airport to our office was
Burbank said investor flew from Menllo
Park down to Burbank and I think fought
six southwest flights in a row and just
kind of waited around the TSA checkpoint
point to see when said founders were
going to be getting on a flight. And of
course, they brought some Armenian
pastries and sat right in the middle
between the two founders and said, "What
are you guys doing here?" and gave him a
couple pitch books and said, "This is
why you know, you should take our
money." So, you know, that is one of
them for sure that goes down into the
their record books. And interestingly,
that individual did not get the series 8
funding, but he today is the chief
business officer at Service Titan 7
years later. That's not me, but that's
one of my teammates.
>> Well, I think that's one of the biggest
wins and probably one of the uh you
know, when he was interviewing at
Service, I'm sure was a big component of
accepting and now he's obviously crushed
it as a business. Um
>> I I'd love to shift gears a little bit.
Uh
hard to get on stage without talking
about AI. Um when I initially asked you
this question, you're like, "Hold on,
hold on, Christina. I want to talk about
how AI is for our customer." So, let's
start there. How are you thinking about
both building, buying, using AI for your
end customers?
>> For sure. And yes, it is funny. When I
checked in this morning, they gave me
the Wi-Fi password. It says stop hiring
humans. Um, so I got a shuckle from
that. So, we have been really
intentional about um AI in our product
to deliver uh the best AI solutions to
our end customers for quite some time,
like at least two years. We hired a CTO
three years ago that used to run the
Einstein product at Salesforce. And so
this is something he's deeply passionate
about and has deep expertise in. And so,
you know, we ended up thinking about
what are the challenges that our
customers face um as it relates to
decisions that are made by human beings.
And one of them happens to be in
dispatching. So when a customer calls in
and says that they have this type of
problem, we rather than having somebody
subjectively say, "Oh, this person is
available and they have this skill set
and let me figure out how to reschedu
this forward to get this person to this
job." Said, "How can we create an AI
model to ultimately allow for automated
dispatching?" And so to send the right
technician to the right job that's going
to minimize drive time, that's going to
maximize their ability to not only serve
the customer, but that they have the
skill set and also the propensity to
close that job to translate to revenue
and a successful outcome for the
business. And so this has been awesome
for our customers because as they grow
and they hire more technicians and they
serve more parts of their respective
markets, they can do so without having
to hire the same level of dispatchers
that used to have to support you know a
finite number of technicians and they
then get not only better business
outcomes on topline but they become more
efficient by way of IBIDA.
This has translated to me like
overseeing our sales organization as a
learning of how we do things internally
and how we want to leverage AI to make
decisions that were historically
otherwise determined by territories and
named accounts and like how pipelines
created. And so we have this really I
think unique way in which we think about
customer acquisition which is if a lead
comes in that looks like a particular
type of lead it gets distributed to the
account executive that has the highest
propensity to close that type of
business. And so it's not roundroin,
it's not named accounts, it's based on
merit. And it's something that I look at
across our sales organization where
every single month we score the team
based on their ability to hit quota. We
score the team based on their efficiency
defined by close rate and then also the
quality of their performance by
leveraging tools that will score their
pitch, their demo quality, etc. And if
they perform really really well, they
get the best type of pipeline in that
next month. And if they perform poorly,
they get relegated. So it's not unlike
the premiership in soccer, this concept
of relegation and promotion. And if you
get good, you got to stay good to be
good.
>> I love how you still bring your rugby
DNA into the day-to-day lives at
Service. Well, I'm actually curious on
talking to customers. Do they understand
AI? Do you talk about AI? Is it a
positive? Is it a negative?
>> I think that two years ago it was a
little scary for them, but I think that
they are fully embracing that this is
the way of the future. I mean, the
trades business has been consolidated in
a massive way. The amount of private
equity that has gone into this. It used
to be that if you were in private
equity, you wanted to buy companies in
different verticals. People are buying
businesses every single day in the
trades. And I think that as they build
these platforms out, they're looking for
opportunities to drive incremental
leverage in their business that is not
dependent on human-based labor and
looking at every part of the funnel in
which they can compress the cycle time,
the close rates, the average price per
ticket. And AI is one of the ways in
which they can do that. And I think that
it is being welcomed with open arms.
>> And we even talk about this all the
time. No one calls uh a company a mobile
company anymore. No one really says a
cloud company anymore. I think that just
becomes table stakes. Everyone has to
have a multi-tenent cloud offering.
Everyone has to have a mobile offering.
Everyone will have to have an AI
offering. In fact, in the end, we're
just going to be talking about these
just companies.
>> One of the things that differentiates
Service Titan beyond the great product
um and the great end market. It's the
almost the old school mentality in the
way in which we think about ways in
which we can differentiate to win the
right to serve the market. And I'll just
tell you that in this age of doing
everything over Zoom and an inundation
of AI tools that are going to make
people hyperefficient, the one
observation that I have, and I am
obviously biased, so take it with a
grain of salt, is that good things
happen when you go on site and you spend
time with your customers. And whenever
anybody is hired into the organization,
whether they're an entry-level sales
development representative or hiring a
new seuite member of our executive
management team, the first thing I tell
them to do is learn the product, learn
the industry, learn the customer. And I
often see people complacent in their
ways of saying, "I've done this this way
at my company, and if we're not going to
go visit customers, everybody should do
it." Whether you're in marketing,
whether you're in sales, whether you're
in R&D, whether you're in HR, I think
that you need to spend time with the
customers way more than you spend time
in the boardroom for preparation or in
the strategy sessions because you will
learn that much more. And one of the
things that I love about AR and Bah who
started this business in Baji's dad's
plumbing shop and now run a business you
know as of an hour ago is worth 11
billion dollars is they spend 95% of
their time with customers whether it be
on calls or in the field. I'm going to
meet one of the founders in Ohio later
tonight. I'm flying out right after this
to go do on-site all day with customers.
And I think that what hasn't changed and
maybe it will and maybe I'll be wrong is
that people buy software, they buy
solutions from people that they are
familiar with, that they trust, that
they like, and that they respect. And
for those that are not doing it, I think
there's opportunity there. And for those
that are doing it, I think it's a
massive differentiator.
>> All right, one last question.
>> Yes. What is your most fun or crazy
customer win?
>> Got some good ones. It's been planes,
trains, and automobiles the last seven
and a half years. This one has come like
full circle. So, my first ever spec
onsite. I was living here in the Bay
Area and I knew that I need to learn the
pitch, learn the customer, learn the
technology. So, I called one of the
sales reps and I said, "Hey, when's your
next available on-site meeting? I want
to come to it." And he said, "Well, it's
tomorrow." And I said, "Fantastic. Where
is he?" He says, "Rodgers, Arkansas."
And so if you know where Rogers,
Arkansas is, it's like on the border of
Oklahoma and Arkansas and there is not a
direct flight from San Francisco. And so
I'm at SFO and I'm furiously trying to
learn everything about the product,
everything about the pitch. I've got my
noise cancelling headphones on and I
don't hear that the gate agent has
changed the gate and everybody has left
because I'm so fixated on preparation. I
miss my flight to Bettinville. And so I
rush over to the United desk and I'm
like, where can you get me tonight? that
is somewhere near Arkansas. And he said,
"Well, we can get you to Kansas City,
but it's like not that close." So, I was
like, "I'll take it." So, I jump in
there and I get to Kansas City at like
1:00 in the morning, get the last rental
car, and I'm, you know, almost out of
battery on my phone, and I'm driving
through country roads in the middle of
the night with no light, and I finally
get to my sales rep at like 7:00 in the
morning at the Hampton in Rogers,
Arkansas, splash some water on my face,
and eat the free Froot Loops and end up
going on site. And again, there's the
difference between, you know, enterprise
companies and electrical companies, but
I walk into what I can best describe as
a small brick house with a tin roof. And
uh there's this business owner in there,
and he's so intelligent. This guy knows
business better than anyone in my
business school cohort. Knows how to
read a P&L better than anyone I've ever
met. And about 40 minutes into this
2hour presentation and demo, he stops
us. And I think that we've pissed the
guy off and that he just isn't liking
what we're laying down. And he slides
his American Express across the table
and he says, "Stop talking. I know if
you guys do anymore, the product's just
going to get more expensive. Here's
$70,000 and charge my credit card." And
so I was astonished, but it helped me
realize like, you know, if you can
provide disproportionate value to
customers, there's real value that you
can create for your business. And the
coolest part about the story is that
while that was my first ever customer
win, fast forward over six years later,
I come to find out that he was part of
this advisory group of other contractors
that was part of this family of
franchises and brands. And he was one of
the references and one of the prime
endorsers of Service Titan having a
positive impact on his business. and it
translated into the largest deal that
we've not only ever done, but the
largest deal I've ever done in my career
in August of last year.
>> You never know what's going to be the
most important customer, the most
important meetings. You always got to
put your best foot forward. All right.
All right.
>> All right.
>> All right. Thank you so much,
>> Christina Shen.
>> And also a huge round of applause for
Ross Fman.
>> Thanks, guys.